In this project here, as I mentioned, generally we have a normal Angular project.
If you explore the source folder, you will find a main.ts file and in the end here, as you can tell,
we bootstrap a normal Angular app, you find absolutely nothing about Ionic in here,
this is all code you find in any normal Angular web application.
The index.html file also looks pretty normal,
we see the title here says something about Ionic but other than that, it's a normal HTML file
and we do have our app root component in there.
Now I do expect you to know how an Angular application starts, that this app root selector is in the
end picked up by our app module which is the module we bootstrap,
we start our app with and the app module in turn which can be found in the app folder,
this defines that our bootstrapping, our root component is the app component which happens to have this
exact same selector, app root here and therefore, the content of the template of this component will
be rendered in the place of this selector in the index.html file
and this then therefore is mounting our root Angular component to the real DOM and any other component
we include in our template of that root component or in then other components templates will therefore
be mounted onto the DOM as well and will be part of our Angular application.
If that that's something you'd never heard about, definitely learn Angular first,
I do expect this basic knowledge from now on. So this all looks quite familiar,
now one thing that is new is the theme folder and here we're also using SASS or SCSS by default,
though you could do that in a normal Angular app as well.
The theme folder will be important though because here, we see some strange syntax which is actually
a CSS feature heavily used by Ionic, CSS custom properties also known as CSS variables and
in the end,
this is not some hacky new feature offered by Ionic,
this is a standard CSS feature about which you also can learn in my Complete CSS Guide here on Udemy
and it allows you to define your own variables which can hold any kinds of values like colors but you
can also store units, you can store sizes, margins, you can store whatever you want in there and you can
then reuse these variables and assign them in your app to other properties. So somewhere else in the app,
we could set a background color of a div to this variable and it would take whichever color is stored
in this variable. Ionic uses this concept heavily since this makes it easy for us to adjust the global
look of our application,
that however is something I'll come back to in the styling and theming module,
I just wanted to mention it here.
More interesting is of course how this app now interact with Ionic,
how is it connected
exactly?
If we have a look at the angular.json file there, we'll see that if we scroll down a bit, this here is
actually the build set up for our default build we would execute when building our Angular app and there
we do import some assets
and the first interesting thing here is that we see that the ionicons,
so these Ionic icons are included as assets. That of course is not the case in a standard Angular project,
instead Ionic created an Angular project for us where the configuration is already adjusted to include
these icons so that we can use them in our Angular app here.
Now that is the first interesting part,
we also have that ionic.config.json file here which is very simple but in the end, this will allow you
to for example set the app, the identifier of your Ionic app.
In the package.json file,
we of course also see that we have all these Angular imports but then we also have some Ionic imports
and especially interesting is that Ionic Angular import here. We'll find that Ionic Angular package being
used in our app module which is the root module of our Angular app
and there, we generally find default Angular code,
we have our NgModule,
we declare our app component,
we bootstrap it,
we import the browser module but then we also see the Ionic module being used here and we also have
these providers down there which are also not there in a standard normal web app you build with Angular.
Now this is all imported from Ionic and from Ionic Angular specifically, we import that Ionic module
and this Ionic module here in the end as it is included in the app module unlocks all these Ionic components
in our Angular app here.
Now you would of course correctly say, what does it need to unlock,
didn't you say that web components can be used anywhere by default?
Yes
but first of all, we of course need to import them,
we need to import our Ionic package and in the previous sections, we did that by including a CDN link.
Here we will never find this link because there is no CDN link or any other import link,
instead this Ionic module will import the Ionic web components but it will actually do more than that
for us because why do we actually have an Ionic Angular package if Ionic is all about having web components
we can drop into any app by default,
why do we need a separate Ionic Angular package then if it should work with any framework?